Progress Report May 2021 (#274)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-may-2021/index.md

bunnei has also greatly simplified the original `IPC` code, which should improve the memory usage and performance of these operations.

As a consequence of the changes introduced in the previous `KAutoObject` PR, the maximum values for many of the kernel objects have started to be enforced. This resulted in 
crashes in games that open and close sessions often, such as `Nintendo Labo`, `Pokémon Sword`, and `Pokémon Shield`, due to yuzu not managing sessions correctly.
The root problem was also the cause of small memory leaks that hadn't been noticed until now, since the sessions weren't being properly closed and remained in memory.
For this reason, bunnei implemented mechanisms for moving and closing objects in a [follow-up PR](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6347), which corrected the way the 
session counter and its opening and closing operations worked.

There are still many other kernel objects to migrate and, for this reason, bunnei introduced a PR to make the 
[KSlabHeap use both guest and host allocations](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6373), 
as this will facilitate the process while missing functions and other structures are being implemented.

> Simply put, the [slab heap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slab_allocation) is a structure used to store kernel elements more efficiently in memory on a [linked list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list), based on their size — all the slots in a slab of memory have the same size, and there can be lists of different sizes to store different objects, too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply put, the [slab heap](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slab_allocation) is a structure used to store kernel elements more efficiently in memory in a [linked list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list), based on their size. All the slots in a slab of memory have the same size, and there can be lists of different sizes to store different objects too.
```

> Instead of allocating and deallocating memory, the kernel marks the nodes on the list as "used" or "free", so when it needs to store a new object, it looks for a free slot and overwrites the data there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of allocating and deallocating memory, the kernel marks the nodes on the list as "used" or "free," so when it needs to store a new object, it looks for a free slot and overwrites the data there.
```

[fixed a crash caused by controllers not listed in the controller list disconnecting](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6312).

## Future projects

Now, I know we keep teasing `Project Hades`, but we have good news!
SPIR-V is finalized, GLASM is in its final testing, and GLSL is not far behind. Few regressions remain to be squashed.
Once the shading languages are done, previous features like the old asynchronous shaders are reimplemented, and the fine tuning is finished, it will finally be released.
We're trying to release it alongside Reaper, but time will tell.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "MARVEL ULTIMATE ALLIANCE 3: The Black Order, WORLD OF FINAL FANTASY MAXIMA, Yoshi's Crafted World"
    "./hades1.png"
    "./hades2.png"
    "./hades3.png"
  >}}

That’s all folks! Thank you so much for staying with us until the end of this month’s progress report.
See you in the next one!

&nbsp;
<h4 style="text-align:center;">
<b>Please consider supporting us on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/yuzuteam)!<br>
If you would like to contribute to this project, check out our [GitHub](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu)!</b>
</h4>

> 

Reviewer: With new Hugo update, replace this ending HTML with the following shortcode:

`{{< article-end >}}`

null buffers managed to skip this check, causing stabilities along the way.
[Properly checking for those zero sized buffers](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6322) fixed the stability issues the new Snap was facing.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "New Pokémon Snap"
    "./1.png"
    "./2.png"
    "./3.png"
  >}}

[Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) has been working hard on implementing much needed fixes in the file system emulation of yuzu.
In this particular case, [improving the accuracy of CreateFile](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6265) fixes the saving and loading issues Snap was experiencing.
Turns out, the error codes of conditions like “parent directory doesn’t exist” or “path already exists” were incorrect, causing havoc in the file system emulation.

Snap also revealed flaws in our touch screen gestures emulation. 
Thanks to work done by [german77](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6275), yuzu [now properly supports multiple fingers](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6267).

GPU emulation related issues stop this game from being perfectly playable. In its current status, photos are not recognized at the evaluation.

> This can be slightly improved by using High GPU accuracy in OpenGL with Assembly Shaders enabled, or for non-Nvidia users, using Extreme GPU accuracy on Vulkan.

Author: Hmm, I'll try to reword it.

> This can be slightly improved by using High GPU accuracy in OpenGL with Assembly Shaders enabled, or for non-Nvidia users, using Extreme GPU accuracy on Vulkan.

Author: GPU emulation related issues stop this game from being perfectly playable. In its current status, photos are not recognized when they are evaluated at the end of a stage.
This can be partially solved by using High GPU accuracy in OpenGL with Assembly Shaders enabled, or for non-Nvidia users, using Extreme GPU accuracy on Vulkan.

Sounds better?

As a result, we recommend users of CPUs that do have FMA to stick to `Accurate` and only force `Unsafe` for Luigi’s Mansion 3. 
Using Unsafe is known to cause precision issues, for example, exaggerating the hitboxes of characters in `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.
Users with old or low-end Intel CPUs that lack FMA, feel free to keep Unsafe enabled all the time.

We provide some examples in the following beautiful and totally perfect table:

| CPU series | FMA support | Recommended setting |
| :-----------: | :--------------: | ------------ |
| Intel Core 4000 to 11000 series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| Intel Core 500 to 3000 series and older | No | Use Unsafe |
| Intel Atom, Celeron and Pentium series | No | Use Unsafe |
| AMD Ryzen series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| AMD FX and A 4000 to 9000 APU series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| AMD Phenom, A 3000 APU series and older | No | Use Unsafe |

*LM3 = Luigi’s Mansion 3

toastUnlimited also gave us the option to [apply settings while games are running](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6346). 
This can help more comfortably test for ideal settings while playing.

> Keep in mind that settings that won’t change until a reboot won’t be affected by the apply button until after a yuzu restart.

Reviewer 2: `settings that require a reboot to take effect, won't be affected by the apply button`

besides simplifying the codebase notably, making it much easier to read and maintain for our developers.

## On-Screen Keyboard changes

Morph has been working hard on fixes for the software keyboard.

Games received the text string of the inline keyboard instead of the regular one, resulting in empty fields being sent which could cause games to panic, 
as it would mean an invalid entry was sent.
[Fixing this only required sending the correct information from the right keyboard type.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6333)

Users reported crashes when pressing Enter after naming a ruleset or controller layout on `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.
Turns out, the `QLineEdit::returnPressed` signal generated a [race condition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Race_condition), resulting in the crashes. 
[Switching to `Qt::QueuedConnection`](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6339) solved the issue.

Additionally, testing confirmed that games can leave regions of memory uninitialized if a text check is performed and doesn’t result in either `Failure` or `Confirm`, 
resulting, again, in crashes.

> [This is fixed by reading only the text check message.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6374). Thank you gidoly and OZ for all the help in finding this!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[This is fixed by reading only the text check message.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6374). Thanks to gidoly and OZ for all the help in finding this!
```

Lastly, there was an issue where the mouse input is captured by the software keyboard until the user moves to the next event.

> german77 fixes this [by releasing the mouse input when yuzu is out of focus.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6275)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
german77 fixed this [by releasing the mouse input when yuzu is out of focus.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6275)
```

An open PR about [allowing yuzu to set a nickname for the emulated switch](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6354) and 
[implementing the `DisableAutoSaveDataCreation` service](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6355) are some of the surprises The Shark left us. 
By the way, that last service? It’s used by `Mii Edit`.

Morph [stubbed the ´ImportClientPki´ and ´ImportServerPki´ services](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6301), making `JUMP FORCE Deluxe Edition` boot. 
`Project Hades` will help make this game playable.

{{< single-title-imgs
    "Thanks Ghost for the pics! (JUMP FORCE Deluxe Edition)"
    "./jfmenu.png"
    "./jfingame.png"
    >}}

bunnei [fixed a hang on shutdown in the NVFlinger thread](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6386) (used for compositing), 
this fixes hangs when pressing stop while playing `Super Mario Odyssey`.
You not only have to let’s-a go, Mario, but also let’s-a stop sometimes.

While yuzu allows users to install anything to NAND, be it updates, DLC, or even the base game, we recommend that only updates and DLC be installed, 
leaving yuzu to find the base game with the user provided locations of the game dumps.

> Morph [implemented this block,](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6319) and a warning that accompanies it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Morph [properly blocked this,](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6319) and added a warning that accompanies it.
```

> Besides what’s mentioned at the start of the article, `Shantae` took a bit of extra work to become playable. Another case of an emulator inside an emulator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Besides what was mentioned at the start of the article, `Shantae` took a bit of extra work to become playable. Another case of an emulator inside an emulator.
```

epicboy [solved a softlock at boot](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6284) by creating layers when queried but not found in the compositting service NVFlinger.

> and ogniK [fixed the crashes](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6279) by improving the emulation of `nvhost-prof-gpu`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and ogniK [fixed the crashes](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6279) by stubbing the emulation of `nvhost-prof-gpu`.
```

[By setting up version 5.12 as the minimum requirement and adding 5.15 to our externals,](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6366) we can ensure that no problems are faced 
when building yuzu with any of the valid compilers, be it MSVC, GCC, Clang or even MinGW.
## UI and other Quality of Life improvements

Users have the option to customize the game list in `Emulation > Configure… > General > UI`, the Add-Ons column can be disabled there. 
Previously, if the user disabled it, the game list was not being refreshed, forcing the user to find inventive ways to manually do it.
Thanks to [Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan)’s work, 
[now the game list properly refreshes itself with no need for manual intervention!](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6298)

{{< imgs
	"./add-ons.png| Add-Ons shows which update, DLCs and mods are installed and enabled"
  >}}

toastUnlimited reluctantly [added the CPU tab to per-game settings.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6321) At the same time, Custom RTC was removed to force it as a global value.

{{< imgs
	"./cpu.png| Totally not a hint of anything"
  >}}

> Now, while we’re on this subject, some things that need to be clarified about the CPU settings tab. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While we’re on this subject, some things that need to be clarified about the CPU settings tab. 
```

As a result, we recommend users of CPUs that do have FMA to stick to `Accurate` and only force `Unsafe` for Luigi’s Mansion 3. 
Using Unsafe is known to cause precision issues, for example, exaggerating the hitboxes of characters in `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.
Users with old or low-end Intel CPUs that lack FMA, feel free to keep Unsafe enabled all the time.

We provide some examples in the following beautiful and totally perfect table:

| CPU series | FMA support | Recommended setting |
| :-----------: | :--------------: | ------------ |
| Intel Core 4000 to 11000 series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| Intel Core 500 to 3000 series and older | No | Use Unsafe |
| Intel Atom, Celeron and Pentium series | No | Use Unsafe |
| AMD Ryzen series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| AMD FX and A 4000 to 9000 APU series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| AMD Phenom, A 3000 APU series and older | No | Use Unsafe |

*LM3 = Luigi’s Mansion 3

toastUnlimited also gave us the option to [apply settings while games are running](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6346). 
This can help more comfortably test for ideal settings while playing.

> Keep in mind that settings that require a reboot to take effect, won't be affected by the apply button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that settings that require a reboot to take effect won't be affected by the apply button.
```

{{< imgs
	"./apply.png| "
  >}}

> Continuing with the per-game setting improvements, toast also added an exception for homebrews.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Continuing with the per-game setting improvements, toast also added an exception for homebrew.
```
pretty sure the plural of homebrew is still homebrew

> Since almost all homebrews use a game-ID of 0000000000000000, using the ID to save the per-game settings would have been useless, so instead, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since most homebrew use a game-ID of 0000000000000000, using the ID to save the per-game settings would have been useless, so instead, 
```

[yuzu will use the name of the homebrew file.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6361)

> And finally, toast, continuing work from german77 and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [adds a button to reset yuzu settings to default](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6362). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And finally, toast, continuing work from german77 and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [added a button to reset yuzu settings to default](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6362). 
```

{{< imgs
	"./reset.png| Simple as that"
  >}}

> This is sometimes needed in very rare cases,for example when being unable to boot `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is sometimes needed in very rare cases, for example, when being unable to boot `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.
```
is there a specific reason to say "unable to boot `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`." can it not be generic and say something like "no longer able to boot a game"

Author: Only smash so far hits this weird behavior.

[while working on displaying the game version on the title bar](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6316), found the code related to the existence of the *dot*, 
and decided to slay it.

Of course, the *dot* wouldn’t be gone without a fight, and removing it caused the yuzu version info to disappear from logs and even the “about us” window!
Morph was the next hero of light selected by the king to slay the monster, [and so did he](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6326).

And thus, the saga of the mysterious *dot* ends, for now.

Speaking of sagas, [ogniK](https://github.com/ogniK5377) works in ways beyond our comprehension.
An open PR about [allowing yuzu to set a nickname for the emulated switch](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6354) and 
[implementing the `DisableAutoSaveDataCreation` service](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6355) are some of the surprises The Shark left us. 
By the way, that last service? It’s used by `Mii Edit`.

Morph [stubbed the ´ImportClientPki´ and ´ImportServerPki´ services](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6301), making `JUMP FORCE Deluxe Edition` boot. 
`Project Hades` will help make this game playable.

{{< single-title-imgs

>     "Thanks Ghost for the pics! (JUMP FORCE Deluxe Edition)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "Thanks, Ghost, for the pics! (JUMP FORCE Deluxe Edition)"
```

    "./jfmenu.png"
    "./jfingame.png"
    >}}

bunnei [fixed a hang on shutdown in the NVFlinger thread](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6386) (used for compositing), 

> this fixes hangs when pressing stop while playing `Super Mario Odyssey`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fixing hangs when stopping emulation while playing `Super Mario Odyssey`.
```

You not only have to let’s-a go, Mario, but also let’s-a stop sometimes.

While yuzu allows users to install anything to NAND, be it updates, DLC, or even the base game, we recommend that only updates and DLC be installed, 
leaving yuzu to find the base game with the user provided locations of the game dumps.
Morph [properly blocked this,](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6319) and added a warning that accompanies it.

> Besides what was mentioned at the start of the article, `Shantae` took a bit of extra work to become playable. Another case of an emulator inside an emulator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides what was mentioned earlier in the article, `Shantae` took a bit of extra work to become playable. Another case of an emulator inside an emulator.
```

> epicboy [solved a softlock at boot](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6284) by creating layers when queried but not found in the compositting service NVFlinger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
epicboy [solved a softlock at boot](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6284) by creating layers when queried but not found in the compositting service NVFlinger 
```

Author: Nani kore

and ogniK [fixed the crashes](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6279) by stubbing the emulation of `nvhost-prof-gpu`.

{{< imgs

> 	"./shantae.mp4| Atta girl! Thank you OZ! (Shantae)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"./shantae.mp4| Atta girl! Thank you OZ for the gameplay! (Shantae)"
```

  >}}

Linux deserves some love too, and [toastUnlimited](https://github.com/lat9nq) shall give it.

> linuxdeploy introduced a regression that caused any file open dialog to crash yuzu if you ran one of our official AppImages. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[linuxdeploy](https://github.com/linuxdeploy/linuxdeploy) introduced a regression that caused any file open dialog to crash yuzu if you ran one of our official AppImages. 
```

toast solved it [by downloading our own version hosted as one of our externals](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6324), allowing us to have better control on changes to 
linuxdeploy, as well as fixing the crashes.

> Users can enjoy the ease of use of the AppImages again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can enjoy the ease of use of AppImage releases again.
```

> An old limitation we faced on distros that decide to “stay on their old and trusted packages” is the provided version of the Qt binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An old limitation we faced with Linux Distributions that decide to “stay on their old and trusted packages” is outdated versions of the Qt binaries.
```

[By setting up version 5.12 as the minimum requirement and adding 5.15 to our externals,](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6366) we can ensure that no problems are faced 

> when building yuzu with any of the valid compilers, be it MSVC, GCC, Clang or even MinGW.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when building yuzu with any of the valid compilers, be it MSVC, GCC, Clang, or even MinGW.
```

## UI and other Quality of Life improvements

> Users have the option to customize the game list in `Emulation > Configure… > General > UI`, the Add-Ons column can be disabled there. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users have the option to customize the game list via `Emulation > Configure… > General > UI`, and the Add-Ons column can be disabled there. 
```

Previously, if the user disabled it, the game list was not being refreshed, forcing the user to find inventive ways to manually do it.
Thanks to [Kewlan](https://github.com/Kewlan)’s work, 

> [now the game list properly refreshes itself with no need for manual intervention!](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6298)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[the game list now properly refreshes itself with no need for manual intervention!](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6298)
```

{{< imgs
	"./add-ons.png| Add-Ons shows which update, DLCs and mods are installed and enabled"
  >}}

> toastUnlimited reluctantly [added the CPU tab to per-game settings.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6321) At the same time, Custom RTC was removed to force it as a global value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
toastUnlimited reluctantly [added the CPU tab to per-game settings.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6321) At the same time, Custom RTC (Real-Time-Clock) was removed to force it as a global value.
```

{{< imgs
	"./cpu.png| Totally not a hint of anything"
  >}}

> While we’re on this subject, some things that need to be clarified about the CPU settings tab. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we’re on this subject, some things need to be clarified about the CPU settings tab. 
```

Unsafe was originally only intended for CPUs that lacked the FMA instruction set, which causes games to run at very low framerates.
Later on, a fix was discovered that could boost the performance of `Luigi’s Mansion 3` by reducing precision. This was described in 
[January’s progress report.](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-jan-2021/)

> As a result, we recommend users of CPUs that do have FMA to stick to `Accurate` and only force `Unsafe` for Luigi’s Mansion 3. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, we recommend users of CPUs that do have FMA to stick to `Accurate` and only force `Unsafe` for `Luigi’s Mansion 3`. 
```

> Using Unsafe is known to cause precision issues, for example, exaggerating the hitboxes of characters in `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `Unsafe` is known to cause precision issues, for example, exaggerating the hitboxes of characters in `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.
```

> Users with old or low-end Intel CPUs that lack FMA, feel free to keep Unsafe enabled all the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with old or low-end Intel CPUs that lack FMA, feel free to keep `Unsafe` enabled all the time.
```

We provide some examples in the following gorgeous and totally perfect table:

| CPU series | FMA support | Recommended setting |
| :-----------: | :--------------: | ------------ |
| Intel Core 4000 to 11000 series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| Intel Core 500 to 3000 series and older | No | Use Unsafe |
| Intel Atom, Celeron and Pentium series | No | Use Unsafe |
| AMD Ryzen series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| AMD FX and A 4000 to 9000 APU series | Yes | Use Accurate, Unsafe for LM3 |
| AMD Phenom, A 3000 APU series and older | No | Use Unsafe |

*LM3 = Luigi’s Mansion 3

toastUnlimited also gave us the option to [apply settings while games are running](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6346). 

> This can help more comfortably test for ideal settings while playing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can allow users to more efficiently test settings while playing.
```

Keep in mind that settings that require a reboot to take effect won't be affected by the apply button.

{{< imgs
	"./apply.png| "
  >}}

Continuing with the per-game setting improvements, toast also added an exception for homebrew.
Since most homebrew use a game-ID of 0000000000000000, using the ID to save the per-game settings would have been useless, so instead, 
[yuzu will use the name of the homebrew file.](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6361)

And finally, toast, continuing work from german77 and [Tobi](https://github.com/FearlessTobi), [added a button to reset yuzu settings to default](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6362). 

{{< imgs
	"./reset.png| Simple as that"
  >}}

This is sometimes needed in very rare cases, for example, when being unable to boot `Super Smash Bros. Ultimate`.

## [Shake it, baby](https://youtu.be/Iac0T6dnuzM)

> german77 has been working on [implementing SDL motion](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6244), with the purpose of removing our dependence on third party programs to get 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
german77 has been working on [implementing SDL motion](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6244), with the purpose of removing our dependency on third party programs to get 
```

motion input from valid controllers like Dual Sense, Joy-Cons, or Pro Controllers.
With this PR, users can simply pair their controllers via Bluetooth and yuzu will pick them up as a valid input device, auto-mapping and enabling motion support, effectively 

> removing the need to use betterjoy, ds4windows or other third party software in yuzu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
removing the need to use betterjoy, ds4windows, or other third party software in yuzu.
```

A separate PR adds [detection of two separate Joy-Cons as a single input device](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6318).

And to provide motion support on the Linux side, [v1993](https://github.com/v1993) [enables the use of HIDAPI within SDL2](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6293). 

Work continues to fine tune how the sensor data is interpreted, specially from non-Nintendo devices.

> For example, PS3 controllers operate motion on a single Z axis, but inform the remaining 2 axis to the operating system with useless NaN values, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, PS3 controllers operate motion on a single Z axis, but report the remaining 2 axes to the operating system with useless NaN values, 
```

making any motion calculations useless.
[By replacing the X and Y axis values with zeros](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6310), german77 solved the issue.

Games don’t always check for obvious physical limitations. 

> For example in the past it was possible to use handheld control emulation while the game was in a docked status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the past, it was possible to use handheld controller emulation while the game was in a docked status.
```

Doing this can break games like `Xenoblade Chronicles 2`, as the game expects the console to disable input when the Joy-Cons are connected to a docked Switch’s rails.
german77 solves this by [forcing an emulated Pro Controller instead](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6353). 
No more weird Frankenstein input monstrosities, please.

> Finally, yuzu could be hard to map on analog sticks due to a bug in how the event was handled. While fixing this, german77 also 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, it could sometimes be difficult to map analog sticks in yuzu due to a bug in how the event was handled. While fixing this, german77 also 
```

[fixed a crash caused by controllers not listed in the controller list disconnecting](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6312).

## Future projects

Some of our devs have recently been implementing the preliminary work in dynarmic needed for hardware `fastmem`, a feature that will lower part of the load when the CPU accesses 
memory, which will help with boosting the performance of the emulator.
This feature has been in debate for over a year, with the devs going back and forth on how to implement it on Windows, as there are some complications that arise from how the 
memory is managed in this OS. 

> We expect to have nice surprises for you on its release, as it will be the prerequisite for more exciting stuff to come.

Reviewer: Reminder to nuke the fastmem portion of this section

> Now, speaking of `Project Hades`, good news!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, I know we keep teasing `Project Hades`, but we have good news!
```
